the Pink Floyd discography is one that's
rich in texture and variation from the
early days of albums such as the Piper
at the Gates of Dawn saucer full of
secrets
the soundtrack to the movie more and I'm
a Gummer it's a more modern day efforts
from the 1970s with atom heart mother
metal obscured by clouds to the ones
that we all recognize know and love Dark
Side of the Moon wish you were here
animals the wall in the final cut and
then finally the two albums that were
absence of Roger Waters a momentary
lapse of reason in the division no but
Pink Floyd's iconic status the best
remembered for albums such as Dark Side
of the Moon animals wish you were here
and the wall all made during their
booming seventies period started from
humble beginnings in the late 1960s with
a member that was only present for one
album and sessions of a second a man who
was only able to place his legacy and
very little works in the Pink Floyd
discography who will remain a
quintessential piece to the Pink Floyd
puzzle even far after his departure Pink
Floyd's humble beginnings start way
before this particular poster right here
could even be seen or understood
conjured or even spawned this is the
Pink Floyd discography and we're going
to start from the beginning with the
very first album with the very first
release a Piper at the Gates of Dawn
Pink Floyd's beginnings and roots can be
traced all the way back to 1967 their
first album the Piper the gates of dawn
a wind of the willows reference wasn't
included the member that oftentimes was
alluded to in the 1970s material Syd
Barrett as an actual member
this along with their second album which
was entitled a Saucerful of Secrets will
both be seen as absolute essential
classics of the psychedelic rock
movement of the 1960s and early 1970s
however it's something that took a
couple of years for this realization to
fully be realized this is an album that
will seem very unlike the classic Pink
Floyd albums that many people own many
people remember many people worship and
others treasure instead this is an album
purely of the psychedelic rock movement
written primarily for Syd Barrett by Syd
Barrett and his style that Syd Barrett
could only reflect as well his life
Barrett who was an avid drug user and
was constantly seen as either tripped
out or wasted on numerous psychedelic
drugs wrote songs that reflected the
image that he saw in his head and it was
typically one that was very disjointed
very cloudy very insane however this fit
perfectly into the psychedelic rock
movement that was currently going on not
only in America not only in areas such
as San Francisco with the San Francisco
acid movement often chronicled in Hunter
s Thomson's Fear and Loathing in Las
Vegas but also in other corners of the
globe including England you could see
this present in tracks such as astronomy
dominating the track that really kicks
off the album and shows you exactly what
Pink Floyd has to offer showing you that
not only were you going to be treated to
a psychedelic thrill ride whatever is
also going to be harken moments of
atmosphere atmosphere that was going to
be a primitive primitive showing of what
Pink Floyd was going to be able to offer
spaced-out users and abusers of their
music in the future but it was the
lavish interstellar overdrive' the
centerpiece of the album which kicked
off side two in the old vinyl format a
near 10 minute long jam that really
showed this in full gear it displayed
the band's ability to really just take
one concept and loosely attach it
through a series
random noises in random atmosphere
collectively creates arguably one of the
strangest but also one of the best
tracks that the album has to offer those
with lyrics will often be seen as
extremely cryptically written both by a
mixture of Roger Waters but mainly by
Syd Barrett Syd Barrett as a wordsmith
was one that was extremely poetic
extremely influenced by classic works of
literature and also just plainly the
surreal and the surreal oftentimes was
the side of him that really won out in
the end it's lyrics talk about
everything from bicycle rides to seeing
someone play in fact one song that is
classically been omitted from this album
one of the Bands very first singles see
Emily play is often considered to be a
sought out treasure by collectors of
Pink Floyd merchandise and apparel this
is a song that has been available only
on choice albums that are of the
tributary variety
either that or those that are seen as
best UPS this is still a song that to
this day even in the 2011 remaster
series has not been included in either
the Piper the gates of dawn or in the
second album Saucerful of Secrets which
is an interesting fact considering this
song along with a song that was featured
on Saucerful of Secrets that your
controls for the heart of the Sun were
considered audience favorites mainstays
in their live format and in songs that
Roger Waters would oftentimes rehash
even on his solo tours long after Pink
Floyd expanded at least parted ways
this album's disjointed characteristics
are a premier showing of whether
psychedelic movement was able to do as
far as construction was concerned the
fact that the label that signed them iam
I did not even really know what kind of
band they were in gave them freeform
artistry gave them the open environment
to create whatever music that they
wanted to create shoot a real bold leap
of faith with a band that was destined
to become something great however at
this moment were nothing at all
nothing but a band that just had a very
slim budget to work with and a couple of
ideas that they wanted to kick around
the result this is a premier album
psychedelic rock history one of the key
notes of this movement a time capsule to
what these years in the world's
lifestyle really had to offer to those
of us today this might seem a little bit
insane surreal crazy painted with hues
that perhaps would only exist under the
influence of acid LSD mushrooms or any
other crazy drug that we may be able to
score and grab with our hands so it
almost seemed like music that would be
best to see instead of here but not in a
live environment but while in this state
of hallucination to actually see the
music in front of you as opposed to only
hearing it with your ears
however sid barett himself will become
the victim of his own surreal lifestyle
as early as album number two and soon as
change would have to be made to the core
lineup of Pink Floyd a change that would
shape their destiny forever